So we've gone through the tutorial,
we know everything there
is to know about Svelte.
Now it's time to use that knowledge
to actually build something.
And so
what we're gonna build is a little game.
We're gonna build a game called ematchi.
It is a matching game of the kind
that you've probably played before.
You get a grid like this and
you reveal two cards at a time,
and then you have to try and
remember where the pairs are.
I got that right,
are up against the clock.
You can see the counter timing
down on the right hand side there.
And we're using a bunch of
different spell features here.
We're using component composition,
we're using slots.
We're using transitions,
we're using animations,
we're using life cycle functions,
loads of stuff.
So hopefully this is gonna be
a pretty good comprehensive summation
of everything that we've learned
elsewhere in this session.
We're gonna begin by creating a project
using a package called createsvelte.
And the way that we use
it on the command line
is we type, npm create svelte@latest.
I'm just gonna hit Enter there.
And that's gonna get
the createsvelte package, and
it's going to ask us where we want
to create our new SvelteKit project.
I'm gonna create a directory called
ematchi, the name of the project.
And we have a few options for what
kind of project we're going to create.
We're gonna use a skeleton project.
I'm gonna use TypeScript for this.
If you're not familiar with TypeScript,
it's all gonna be fairly easy to follow,
so don't worry about this.
It's just gonna make things
a little bit easier.
And I'm gonna add prettier to
keep our code nicely formatted.
Okay, so it's scaffolded our project.
I'm gonna open it in VS Code.
And then I'm gonna install my
dependencies with pnpm install.
Now you don't have to use VS Code,
of course, although it is the editor that
I would generally recommend for
doing this stuff, mostly because we have
a really good editor extension for
working with Svelte inside VS Code.
If you go to the extensions tab and
search for Svelte,
You will see spelt for VS Code up here.
And I strongly recommend that
you install this extension.
It's gonna make your life a lot easier
when you're building things in Svelte.
So this is a SvelteKit app
that we've just created, and
we haven't covered SvelteKit yet,
and we're actually not going to.
This is the way to build Svelte apps.
But we're not gonna be learning
any of the SvelteKit features,
we're just gonna be using
plain old Svelte in this demo.
Most of our time is gonna be
spent in this page.svelte file.
Right now we have some placeholder
content that says, welcome to SvelteKit.
And if I fire up the development
server with pnpm dev, or
npm run dev, if you're not a pnpm user,
Then that's opening a development
server on port 5,173,
because we're using Vite, and
that is the port that Vite uses.
So I'm gonna move this window
over to the left handside so
that we can have our browser
open on the right handside.
I'm gonna open that to local 5,173, and
you can see that we have our page
being rendered in the browser.
If I make some changes here and save them,
you'll see that the page updates.